Hello world! If this pushes then GitHub is working.

To-do: de-spaghettify, maybe change accelerometer update interval for battery reasons.

FFmpeg terminal command: "ffmpeg -i inputFileName.extension outputFileName.wav", you need to be in the file directory that has the input file.

GitHub student thing is https://education.github.com/pack

// Use Command Shift L to get list of iOS images

An awesome non-intiger metronome is https://eggfish.studio/bpm. This is like the only one on the internet that isn't restricted to intigers. I hope they never ever take it down.


https://xkcd.com/1296/

For revoked certificates   /System/Library/CoreServices/Applications   or   go to finder > computer name >hard drive >  system > library > Coreervices > Applications, don't run passwords

      Remember to change version number!
1.3.1 Plays a tone, pushing again
1.3.0 Start of GPS data collection. Need tone player. Hopefully no bugs. Also I fixed a bug where the fonts were out of 256 instead of 255. It compiles right now so I'm pushing.
      
1.2.5 More songs before I break stuff
1.2.4 More songs
1.2.3 About to try to add data collection
1.2.2 I'm playing with the gyroscope, as a possible way to correct the accelerometer
1.2.1 UI Updates
1.2.0 I added tabs! The UI looks a lot better. Hopefully no bugs. I'm also making a folder for archived stuff. You've served me well ContentView.

1.1.5 Party songs, patched tempo. Also Apple is weird and tried to revoke my certificates but dad fixed it.
1.1.4 Another song.
1.1.3 I hope I fixed my GitIgnore. It turns out XCode wasn't listening to it because it's a well-made Apple product so I have to add MP3 files in the filesystem. I have also added another song. I also added a button to go forward or backward a tenth of a beat.1.1.2 I did some debugging of the thing I made on Sunday. It works better now. The GitIgnore is still broken. I also made a private repo for MP3s.
1.1.1 song #13 is The Veldt music from FFIV. It's a fun percussion/bassline. It's at 180 BPM. It's copyrighted so I'm not putting the file on GitHub. I also retyped all my changes to the AKConverter script because they got lost before from the Git shenanigans.1.1.0 it does .mp3 files now! I stole a script from someone named Ryan Francesconi, thanks to them for making it. I then spend an evening with Dad trying to hook up all the wires. File systems are really messy. Anyway, it works and I'm going to add .mp3's to the gitignore and then put copyrighted music in them.
1.1.0 it does .mp3 files now! I stole a script from someone named Ryan Francesconi, thanks to them for making it. I then spend an evening with Dad trying to hook up all the wires. File systems are really messy. Anyway, it works and I'm going to add .mp3's to the gitignore and then put copyrighted music in them.

1.0.2 I added more songs.
1.0.1 I made the "smoothed" pace smooth slightly less. I also added a shepard's tone for fun :). You can listen to it if you wanted to for some reason. It can also play if the GPS thinks you're going below the goal pace.
1.0.0 IT LIVES!!!!!! I made it pace you with the GPS. It askes the OS for the velocity and prints it on the screen, and doubles the music tempo if you're not going fast enough. It doesn't try to make the beats keep lining up so I will have to make it do that sometime. I will test it later.


0.8.1 Apple Glass is terrible and they should change it back. I'm updating my various computers and making another app to play with the GPS. I also found a way to ask for GPS permissions so I'm adding that to the main MetroGnome.

0.8.0 I opened and pushed from a school computer. I'm upping the version number since I haven't done any coding for a while, and I updated Xcode and Swift, so this feels like a good time to up it. I also changed the slider implementation in the UI so it keeps being "quantized" in the new Swift version.

Hello world from school! I've been able to get Xcode updated on the PPS computers so I'm using one repo and doing a test push from school.
Now I'm updating Xcode and will download an updated version at school also. I'm pushing the updated project to GitHub so I can pull down an updated one at school.

0.7.5 I changed the UI so the minTempo and maxTempo are sliders instead of a bunch of buttons. This saves real estate on the screen. I also fixed a bug where the user could use the prev/next song buttons to queue a nonexistant song and make the app crash. Next I'll try to implement an auto-pacing with a goal tempo, which should be a lot easier than getting a GPS.
0.7.4 I changed the buttons to make the 180 minTempo button visible and deleted the 100 minTempo and 240 maxTempo since I never use them. I also made a button to change the currently selected song since the slider is kind of hard to use. I also added padding to the bottom of the ContentView UI so it's more centered. Tonight or tommorrow or sometime I'm going to mess with the AudioPlayer to add a progress bar slider and support a pause button.
0.7.3 I added another audio file. This is a version of Pachelbel's Canon I got off of Wikipedia. Someone named Kevin MacLeod apparently created the file and wants credit for it, so I'm putting his name in the Notes file and commit message (which are identical). I then learned it has to be a .wav file and used FFmpeg from https://evermeet.cx/ffmpeg/ to convert it. Putting FFmpeg in the MetroGnome to support other file types might be a future project.
0.7.2 I drew a bad app icon. I'll probably draw a better one tomorrow.
0.7.1 The app now can support having multiple songs. It doesn't yet support users uploading their own songs or storing data in between app launches. I also haven't upload multiple song files, so it plays the same test audio file at normal and double tempo. I also fixed the code that runs the algorithm every frame, so it actually does it on 30 FPS and not when the MotionManager thing updates. I might upload actual songs sometime.
0.7.0 I'm over starting again with the record-based algorithm from 0.6.0. Now I'm using 3/4 of a stride before I declare there was a record instead of 1/2. I'm also going to start over with an error correction algorithm, since the previous attempt turned into a mess and I'm now aware of how the tempo changing doesn't happen on a beat. I'm also making the MotionManager update every 0.02 seconds instead of 0.008 for battery reasons since I don't think it will matter noticeably.

0.5.3 I'm going back to my code from 0.5.2 for the algorithm but going to add some maxTempo button features from the later versions. I'm also adding buttons for the watermarks.

0.6.2 This is a big spaghetti mess right now. Future me can deal with it after Steens and XC Team Camp. I'm going to push and then make 0.5.3 for the camps, which will be like 0.5.2 but with some maxTempo button features.
0.6.1 I despaghettified the algorithm without making any changes. There is a bug that it counts the strides after a record goes unbroken for half a beat, and not when the stride actually happened. More bugs may exist. I also fixed some bugs with maxTempo.
0.6.0 I added a new algorithm that assumes each beat starts at the lowest acceleration part of the stride. I think it works pretty well. I then forgot to push added an option to attempt error correction, so this is still 0.6.0. It's really bad, but in theory works..? I'm taking it to Long Run tommorrow. I might not work on MetroGnome more until after Team Camp in late July, in which case this is the best error correction algorithm I'll have. It also works pretty well if its not trying to do error correction.

0.5.2 I de-spaghettified some of the code. I also made a button to change the minimum tempo between 120 and 150 BPM. I also changed the "App Category" in the .xcodeproj file to be "Music" since it was listed as books for some reason.
0.5.1 Removed slider, moved min/max code, made button bigger. I have to go now bye!
0.5.0 It plays audio now!!! I'm glad this was doable and I didn't have to code in audio processing. I made it correlated to the person running's tempo somehow. It changes when I run with the phone. I'm not sure how well it works, but I'm tired so I'm going to push and run with it tomorrow. I'll see how well it works then!

0.4.3 I changed some of the watermarks in the algorithm. I also changed the tempo of the test audio files to 180 BPM so the files are smaller. GitHub didn't like individual files being 181 megabytes...
I created three test audio .wav files and added them to this Swift file. One plays a test video for 16 beats/4 measures, one plays for 64 beats/16 measures, and one plays for 1024 beats/256 measures. The files are at 60 BPM since I think that will be an easy number to work with but it doesn't really matter. I'm not counting this as an app version since there haven't been any code changes. I am pushing it to GitHub though. Now I will go on a code-de-spaghettifying project and a .wav file playing project. I'm not sure which will come first.
0.4.2 I modified the algorithm, so instead of not counting highWaterMarks before half a stride passes, it won't count lowWaterMarks until 3/4 of a stride passes. This should fix the algorithm enough for me to work on playing audio files. I also made two other minor changes: it  moves the chord note incrementation into a function called changeNote() for readability, and forces the tempo to be between 120 and 240 BPM to avoid getting into a bad state. Next I will create a test .wav file!
0.4.1 removed most of the percussion by moving the Switch{} statement into the place where it notes the strides. It no longer calls every frame. I also changed the settings in the .xcodeproj file to be like they were in the old Xcode file.
0.4.0 plays a Concert A3 major/minor scale with sometimes A2 chords. The minor chords sound kind of wrong and out of tune, but it's fine since this isn't the final audio it will play. It also makes some clicky sounds sometimes but it isn't crashing..? It's a feature, not a bug. You get some percussion!

0.3.4 no longer has a TonePlayer that plays multiple pitches since that was causing runtime problems/crashes. I also made a new Xcode app called MetroGnome. Will push to Git.
0.3.3 has a TonePlayer that plays multiple pitches, up to 7 since that's how many I'll need for the scale.
0.3.2 tries to fix the bug where it hiccups extra strides in a stride. Code is getting spaghettified.
0.3.2 tries to calculate tempo. It doesnÍt work. I donÍt have time to write a good commit message.
0.3.1 changes the watermarks to -5.0 and 5.0. I also fixed a bug caused by trying to made it only toggle every other stride.
0.3.0 toggles the chord and makes it go up and down an octave with stride. Watermarks are 5.0 and 15.0.

0.2.2 is also sideways and rounds Absolute Jerk to an integer. It also has a MotionManager update interval of .033 seconds instead of .008.
0.2.1 is sideways and just displays the Absolute Jerk value, really big. It also has a MotionManager update interval of .033 seconds instead of .008.
0.2.0 calculates absolute and rotational jerk. I printed it on the screen.

0.1.4 is not even temperament, "Just" tuning I think..? Not entirely sure what it's called.
0.1.3 will be cleaned-up 0.1.2 if CrapGPT can de-spaghetti it without breaking stuff.
0.1.2 was 440 * sqrt(g's), updates more..? Might crash phone, hopefully not...
0.1.1 was 440 * sqrt(g's).
0.1.0 was 128 * g's Hz.

Hello world!
